docs: Refactor-homepage-architecture (#36823)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/architecture.md

# Introduction to Angular concepts

<div class="alert is-helpful">

  The code examples in this topic are available as a <live-example></live-example>.
</div>

> Angular is an [open source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-source "Open source") cross-platform [framework](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_framework "Web framework") for building single-page applications using [HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML "Introduction to HTML") with [JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/A_re-introduction_to_JavaScript "A re-introduction to JavaScript") or [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/ "TypeScript: JavaScript that scales").

Reviewer: I'd focus on the web aspect instead of presenting Angular as a cross-platform. @IgorMinar should have an opinion here as well.

Reviewer 2: Exactly. Angular is a solution for building UIs for the Web. And the Web is a cross-platform medium.

Author: OK, rewrote the intro paragraph as follows:

> Angular is an [open source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-source "Open source") [framework](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_framework "Web framework") and a platform of components and tooling for building web applications using [HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML "Introduction to HTML") with [JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/A_re-introduction_to_JavaScript "A re-introduction to JavaScript") or [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/ "TypeScript: JavaScript that scales").
> Its architecture enables the apps to run across different environments on clients and servers using a JavaScript engine.
> Angular is supported by the Angular Team at Google and by a community of individuals and corporations.
>

> Angular is an [open source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-source "Open source") cross-platform [framework](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_framework "Web framework") for building single-page applications using [HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML "Introduction to HTML") with [JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/A_re-introduction_to_JavaScript "A re-introduction to JavaScript") or [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/ "TypeScript: JavaScript that scales").

Reviewer 2: Angular is much more than a framework at this point.

Angular = framework + components + tooling + community.

Author: Added in the above paragraph. "...an open-source framework and a platform of components and tooling for..." The last sentence describes "... supported ... by a community..."

> It's architecture enables the apps to run across different environments—browser, server, web-worker, and mobile devices—using a JavaScript engine.

Reviewer: WebWorker is an experimental use case, mobile is supported, but mostly focus of third-parties. I'd be a little more conservative - "run on the client and the server".

Reviewer 2: correct, we deprecated the webworker support as our current the solution is suboptimal. This doesn't mean that we won't come back to webworkers in the future, we might, but for now it's not something that is mainstream and something we want to encourage people to use.

Author: Fixed in the above rewritten intro:

> Its architecture enables the apps to run across different environments on clients and servers using a JavaScript engine.

> Angular is an [open source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-source "Open source") [framework](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_framework "Web framework") and a platform of components and tooling for building web applications using [HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML "Introduction to HTML") with [JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/A_re-introduction_to_JavaScript "A re-introduction to JavaScript") or [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/ "TypeScript: JavaScript that scales").

Reviewer 3: Do you want to call out JavaScript here? Angular apps pretty much require usage of TypeScript so I find it a bit misleading that we list JS and TS on par here.

Author: I agree, changing to "HTML and TypeScript".

Angular is supported by the Angular Team at Google and by a community of individuals and corporations.

Written in TypeScript, Angular implements core and optional functionality as a set of TypeScript libraries that you import into your apps.

> Angular combines declarative templates, dependency injection, end-to-end tooling, and integrated best practices to solve development challenges.

Reviewer 3: nit: "solve" - > "address" / "tackle"? Can one "solve challenges"? (not a native EN speaker so might be nit-picking for nothing here...)

Author: I like "tackle" so using that, thanks!

You define an Angular app using a set of [*NgModules*](#modules), which collect related code into functional sets.
An app always has at least a *root* module that enables bootstrapping, and typically has many more *feature modules*.

> An NgModule provides a compilation context for [*components*](#components), which define views as sets of screen elements that Angular can choose among and modify according to your program logic and data.

Reviewer: I tend to think of NgModules more as the lexical scope of the templates of the declared components inside of them. @alxhub could correct me if I'm wrong.

Reviewer 2: both @rockument69's and your proposal are technically correct. I think Tony's explanation is simpler to understand.

Author: I actually shortened it, because the 2nd sentence about the root module is repeated below, in the section about NgModules. Therefore, the paragraph is now as follows:

> You define an Angular app using a set of [*NgModules*](#modules), which collect related code into functional sets.
> An NgModule provides a compilation context for [*components*](#components), which define views as sets of screen elements that Angular can choose among and modify according to your program logic and data.

Links take the reader to the actual definitions of these terms.

Reviewer 3: Hmm, I would probably start with _components_. In my head everything starts with a component. Components can use services. And modules group components + services. I find it a bit odd to start with modules since those are currently architectural / impl _necessity_ rather than the central concept.

Service providers can be injected into components as dependencies, making your code modular, reusable, and efficient.

Modules, components and services are classes that use *decorators*.
These decorators mark their type and provide metadata that tells Angular how to use them.

* The metadata for a component class associates it with a [*template*](#templates) that defines a view.
A template combines ordinary HTML with Angular *directives* and *binding markup* that allow Angular to modify the HTML before rendering it for display.

* The metadata for a service class provides the information Angular needs to make it available to components through *dependency injection (DI)*.

> Figure 1 shows a conceptual diagram of a feature NgModule that includes a component, a template, and a service injected into the component.

Reviewer 3: "diagram of a feature NgModule that includes a component, a template" - this sounds like NgModule contains components _and_ templates but it is rather a component that is an "owner" of a template. How about "includes a component _with_ a template"

Author: For the above comments: 

New sentence for introducing components and NgModule:
> You define an Angular app using a set of [*components*](#components), which define views as sets of screen elements that Angular can choose among and modify according to your program logic and data. An [*NgModule*](#modules) groups components into functional sets and provides a compilation context for them. 

Using "with a template" as suggested above.

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src="generated/images/guide/architecture/angular-rough-diagram.png" alt="Conceptual diagram of an NgModule">
</div>

**Figure 1**. Conceptual diagram of a feature NgModule

An app's components typically define many views, arranged hierarchically.
Angular provides the `Router` service to help you define navigation paths among views.
The router provides sophisticated in-browser navigational capabilities.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

  See the [Angular Glossary](guide/glossary) for basic definitions of important Angular terms and usage.

</div>

## Modules

Angular [NgModules](/guide/glossary#ngmodule "Definition of NgModule") differ from and complement JavaScript (ES2015) modules.
An NgModule declares a compilation context for a set of components that is dedicated to an application domain, a workflow, or a closely related set of capabilities.

> An NgModule can associate its components with related code, such as services, to form functional units.

Reviewer 3: "An NgModule can associate its components with related code, such as services, to form functional units."

Hmm, this doesn't sound quite right to me... It is not like an NgModule is associating services with components. NgModule makes services _available_ to components, but it is up to a component to use a given service (and thus make an association). Moreover a component can use a service defined in a _different_ NgModule (obvious in in case of lazy-loaded  modules) so yeh, we need to review this part.

Author: Removing the sentence "An NgModule can associate its components with related code, such as services, to form functional units."

Every Angular app has a *root module*, conventionally named `AppModule`, which provides the bootstrap mechanism that launches the application.
An app typically contains many functional modules.

Like JavaScript modules, NgModules can import functionality from other NgModules, and allow their own functionality to be exported and used by other NgModules.
For example, to use the router service in your app, you import the `Router` NgModule.

Organizing your code into distinct functional modules helps in managing development of complex applications, and in designing for reusability.
In addition, this technique lets you take advantage of *lazy-loading*&mdash;that is, loading modules on demand&mdash;to minimize the amount of code that needs to be loaded at startup.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

  For a more detailed discussion, see [Introduction to modules](guide/architecture-modules).

</div>

{@a components}

## Components

Every Angular application has at least one [component](/guide/glossary#component "Definition of component"), the *root component* that connects a component hierarchy with the page document object model (DOM).

> Each component defines a class that contains application data and logic, and is associated with an HTML *template* that defines a view to be displayed in a target environment.

Reviewer 3: I would drop HTML from here - the way it is written sounds like Angular templates contain only HTML.

Author: Done

   Angular defines a number of decorators that attach specific kinds of metadata to classes, so that the system knows what those classes mean and how they should work.

   Learn more about decorators in [Exploring EcmaScript Decorators](https://medium.com/google-developers/exploring-es7-decorators-76ecb65fb841#.x5c2ndtx0 "Exploring EcmaScript Decorators").

</div>

{@a templates}

### Templates, directives, and data binding

A [template](/guide/glossary#template "Definition of template") combines HTML with Angular markup that can modify HTML elements before they are displayed.
Template *directives* provide program logic, and *binding markup* connects your application data and the DOM.
There are two types of data binding:

* *Event binding* lets your app respond to user input in the target environment by updating your application data.
* *Property binding* lets you interpolate values that are computed from your application data into the HTML.

Before a view is displayed, Angular evaluates the directives and resolves the binding syntax in the template to modify the HTML elements and the DOM, according to your program data and logic.

> Angular supports *two-way data binding*, meaning that changes in the DOM, such as user choices, are also reflected in your program data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Angular supports *data binding*, meaning updated to the application state are automatically reflected in the view via DOM updates. Angular also supports *event binding* which allows a user input to update the application state.
```

Reviewer 2: the two way data binding topic is slightly controversial because a/ Angular doesn't support "true" two-way data-binding, we provide a feature that is similar to it, and b/ two-way data binding is now seen as an anti-pattern and not a feature.

Author: OK. I rewrote so that I would not be adding data and event binding twice:

> A [template](/guide/glossary#template "Definition of template") combines HTML with Angular markup that can modify HTML elements before they are displayed.
> Template *directives* provide program logic, and *binding markup* connects your app's data and the DOM.
> There are two types of data binding:
> 
> * *Event binding* lets your app respond to user input in the target environment by updating your application data.
> * *Property binding* lets you interpolate values that are computed from your application data into the HTML.
> 
> Before a view is displayed, Angular evaluates the directives and resolves the binding syntax in the template to modify the HTML elements and the DOM, according to your program data and logic.
> Updates to the app state are automatically reflected in the view through DOM updates.
>

> Before a view is displayed, Angular evaluates the directives and resolves the binding syntax in the template to modify the HTML elements and the DOM, according to your program data and logic.

Reviewer 3: "HTML elements and the DOM" <- in this context "HTML elements" and "DOM" are the same thing so we should have only one of those here.

Author: Using DOM. Thanks!

# Introduction to Angular concepts

<div class="alert is-helpful">

  The code examples in this topic are available as a <live-example></live-example>.
</div>

Angular is an [open source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-source "Open source") [framework](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_framework "Web framework") and a platform of components and tooling for building web applications using [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/ "TypeScript: JavaScript that scales") and [HTML](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Learn/HTML/Introduction_to_HTML "Introduction to HTML").
Written in TypeScript, Angular's core architecture and optional functionality is provided as a set of TypeScript libraries that you import into your apps.
Angular is supported by the Angular Team at Google and by a community of individuals and corporations.

## Why Angular is useful

Building web applications is typically an exercise in tricking the browser to dynamically load portions of the user interface (UI).

> With Angular you can use the [single-page application](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-page_application "Single-page application in Wikipedia") (SPA) design pattern to dynamically rewrite the current web page with new portions of the page from the server, which is significantly faster than loading entire pages from the server.

Author: Agreed, done in the next commit.

As users access your app's features, the browser needs to render only the parts that matter to the user, instead of loading a new page. 
This pattern can significantly improve your application's user experience.
Examples of single-page applications include Gmail, Google Maps, Facebook, and GitHub.

HTML is a great declarative language for static documents, but it doesn't provide enough functionality to create web applications.

> Angular extends HTML to provide features that eliminate much of the code you would otherwise have to write, such as data binding, dependency injection, form validation, routing, and document object model (DOM) control structures.

Author: I'm changing "control structures" to "manipulation", as in "DOM manipulation". This also fits better with the other phrases.

> By declaratively describing how your app's UI should change as your app state changes, you are freed from writing low-level DOM manipulation tasks.

Author: OK, "code" is much better.

You don't have to write a lot of "plumbing" code to get a basic app working.
You can bootstrap your app using auto-injected services so that you can start developing features immediately.

You define an Angular app using a set of [*components*](#components), which define views as sets of screen elements that Angular can choose among and modify according to your program logic and data.
An [*NgModule*](#modules) collects components into functional sets and provides a compilation context for them.

Components use [*services*](#dependency-injection), which provide specific functionality not directly related to views such as sending or receiving data.
Service providers can be injected into components as dependencies, making your code modular, reusable, and efficient.

Modules, components and services are classes that use *decorators*.

> These decorators mark their type and provide metadata that tells Angular how to use them.

Author: I think this might work: "Decorators identify the type of class and provide metadata..."

* The metadata for a component class associates it with a [*template*](#templates) that defines a view.

> A template combines ordinary HTML with Angular *directives* and *binding markup* that allow Angular to modify the HTML before rendering it for display.

Author: OK, done in next commit.

The `@Component()` decorator identifies the class immediately below it as a component, and provides the template and related component-specific metadata.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

   Decorators are functions that modify JavaScript classes.
   Angular defines a number of decorators that attach specific kinds of metadata to classes, so that the system knows what those classes mean and how they should work.

   Learn more about decorators in [Exploring EcmaScript Decorators](https://medium.com/google-developers/exploring-es7-decorators-76ecb65fb841#.x5c2ndtx0 "Exploring EcmaScript Decorators").

</div>

{@a templates}

### Templates, directives, and data binding

A [template](/guide/glossary#template "Definition of template") combines HTML with Angular markup that can modify HTML elements before they are displayed.
Template *directives* provide program logic, and *binding markup* connects your app's data and the DOM.
There are two types of data binding:

* *Event binding* lets your app respond to user input in the target environment by updating your application data.

> * *Property binding* lets you interpolate values that are computed from your application data into the HTML.

Reviewer 3: I know that this is the existing text (and not sth modified by this PR) but the "interpolate values" phrasing doesn't "click" with me. How about "lets you map values from your application data into the HTML"

Author: OK, done.

{@a dependency-injection}

## Services and dependency injection

For data or logic that isn't associated with a specific view, and that you want to share across components, you create a *service* class.
A service class definition is immediately preceded by the `@Injectable()` decorator.
The decorator provides the metadata that allows other providers to be **injected** as dependencies into your class.

>  *Dependency injection* (DI) lets you keep your component classes lean and efficient.

Reviewer 3: nit: "lean and efficient" sounds a bit like a "marketing slogan" without real meaning. What are we trying to say here? I guess the fact that code can be moved out of the component class (the lean part?). But moving code around doesn't make it more "efficient". I guess the real benefit is that code is split into smaller, cohesive chunks.

Can you try to re-phrase it (again, sorry for the nit-picking, I know that this is pre-existing text)

Author: As for pre-existing text... I started working on the home page and realized that I needed some kind of intro paragraph for the architecture.md page. Reviews are catching all these problems in the existing text. (I'm a tech writer, I should have known better.) This experience is like the following (choose one):
- Opening a can of worms. To re-can, you need a larger can.
- Opening Pandora's box. You have no idea what you might find.
- The remaining work to finish in order to reach your goal increases as the deadline approaches.

Thanks!
